*   1000 kg iron ingots
*   500 kg nickel ingots
*   500 kg ice
*   200 kg silicon wafers

Total mass: 2,295.25 kg

**Structure Section**

In real-world spacecraft, the structural section mostly refers to the trusses that hold components in place relative to one another. In Space Engineers, however, this also includes conveyor systems which allow gasses, minerals, ingots, and components to move from block to block. Crafty players can minimize the number of conveyor tubes by placing each block's conveyor port agains that of its neighbor, but less-experienced players or those with a certain aesthetic in mind might need to add a conveyor junction or a tube to connect everything in the ship together.

_Example:_

While we were able to connect the components of the payload and the thrust section together without using conveyor components, a bright idea occured to us as we were placing the connector: by adding a conveyor tube, we could lift the connector from the ship's hull, making it easier to dock with stations for trade without colliding:

*   1 Conveyor Tube

Total Mass: 394 kg

It may seem silly to even include the mass of the structure when it contributes so little to the _Sagittarius_'s overall mass. But consider that many potential structural components can actually be quite heavy: it's easy to get carried away with, for example, heavy armor if you aren't keeping track of how much mass it adds to the ship. Adding these items in now prevents nasty surprises on the launch pad.

## Checking Our Work

Once the design is completed, calculating the thrust-to-weight ratio of the spacecraft is relatively simple: simply add up the mass of each section, add up the thrust generated by the thrusters used to lift the spacecraft into orbit, note the surface gravity of the planet you are on, and input those values into the following equation:

T:W = F / (m \* g \* 9.81 (m/s2)/g)

where:

F: the total thrust of all lift-off thrusters, measured in newtons m: the total mass of the spacecraft and loaded items g: the intensity of the planet's gravity, measured in multiples of Earth's gravity

If the result is greater than 1, the design will launch. Check that there is enough energy or hydrogen to last the entire flight, then start building!

_Example:_

We add up the mass of the thrust sections, the payload section, the items stored, and the structural section:

22,201.6 kg + 72,860.6 kg + 2,295.25 kg + 394 kg = **97,751.45 kg**

As stated above, one large hydrogen thruster can produce 7,200,000 N of thrust. Will that be enough to launch from Earth?

T:W = 7,200,000 N / (97,751.45 kg \* 1.00 g \* 9.81 (m/s2)/g) = 7,200,000 N / 958,941.7 N = **7.5** (easily!)

Will one hydrogen tank provide enough hydrogen to make it into orbit? One large hydrogen tank stores up to 15,000,000 L of hydrogen, a large hydrogen thruster uses up to 4820 L/s of hydrogen, and a small hydrogen thruster uses up to 803 L/s of hydrogen. If we assume that two small thrusters are always on full-blast to stabilize the _Sagittarius_ during its ascent (a worst-case assumption if there ever was one!), then the thrusters would use 6,426 L/s of hydrogen and burn thru the tank in 2,334.3 seconds, or just shy of 39 minutes. Since a spacecraft maintaining a constant speed of 100 m/s will travel 50 km in 8 minutes and 20 seconds, the _Sagittarius_ has more than enough hydrogen to make it to space.

It looks like the _Sagittarius_ design is sound!

## Construction Tips

Since the player has started this process with a base already, we won't go over the basics of construction. Rather, we will simply list some of the tips and tricks which can make construction a bit smoother:

*   Start by creating an attachment point to hold the spacecraft in place during launch. This can be a connector, a merge block, or for those who want the sturdiest connection possible, the spacecraft can start from a branch of the base's conveyor network. If this method is chosen, just remember to grind the conveyor tube connecting the ship to the base before lift-off.
*   Processing ice for oxygen or hydrogen will likely take longer than construction if the base does not already have stockpiles of hydrogen. To make this process faster, build any hydrogen or oxygen tanks first, then build the spacecraft's oxygen generator next. This will allow the ship and the base to contribute to the spacecraft's gas supply while the rest of the spacecraft is built.
*   Configure the spacecraft's thrusters, gyroscpoes, and other blocks as needed before launch. In particular, shut off any thrusters while building to conserve power or hydrogen, then switch them on for launch.
*   If the spacecraft is attached to the base from multiple points, ensure that they can be quickly and simultaneously disconnected to avoid damaging the spacecraft or the base during launch.
*   Check the orientation of the cockfit or flight seat prior to beginning launch operations; the cockpit orientation determines which direction the spacecraft uses as "forward".

_Example:_

To streamline the construction and connection process, we decide to be clever by constructing a large atmospheric ship with our large hydrogen tank, a few atmospheric thrusters, and just enough avionics to connect it to a new connector on our base. Once the atmospheric ship is connected to the base, we dismantle the atmospheric thrusters, then begin construction on the rest of the _Sagittarius_. While the budding spacecraft isn't perfectly vertical, it also means that we only have one connection point to worry about, and that the hydrogen tank begins filling from our extensive reserves on-site.

## Launch

Once the spacecraft is fully assembled, configured, and fueled, launch should be a fairly simple, if hair-raising matter. Check that the thrusters are turned on, ensure that the spacecraft is loaded with any items needed in orbit, then disconnect from the base. If properly designed and constructed, the spacecraft should hover in place; if that happens, launch when ready.

As detailed in Gameplay Considerations, the most fuel-efficient launch profile involves picking a minimum and maximum speed and alternating between accelerating and coasting. As the intensity of the planet's gravity decreases, the spacecraft will spend more time coasting and less time accelerating to maintain the same speed; this is because the lessened gravity robs the spacecraft of less momentum during each coasting period and fights against the spacecraft's thrusters less during each acceleration.

Once the altimeter disappears, the spacecraft has officially entered orbit. Point any available solar panels toward the sun, then pick a direction and start exploring!